Oct 18th 2024
	I started a bit late with my whole project, today I started a more in depth research for my project. I saw a few implementations for pacman 
    and compared their similarities and differences. Many implementations are terminal based instead of having a GUI.

Oct 24th 2024
	“Studied” the ghosts of pacman to understand their behaviour based on the code that others had written in their implementations. I noticed 
    that most of the implementations of the ghost were identical, which makes sense if you consider that the ghosts actually move deterministically 
    and the game would not be pacman if the ghost behaviour was different.

Oct 30th 2024
	Started researching the A* algorithm and its basic theory. I read a page that explained the algorithm very well saying it's a combination of 
    dijkstra's and greedy breadth first search. I knew both algorithms that are used but I had to freshen up my mind so I searched bothe dijkstas 
    and breadth first search. I then continued reading on A*.

Nov 17th 2024
	I just started working on my code for the game, I started a bit late due to coursework from another module, regardless I wrote as much code as 
    I could and ended up writing a vectors file, a pacman file and a nodes file more notably. The nodes were not a proper map of the game they are 
    plotted just to make sure that the functions worked properly

Nov 18th 2024
	Pacman can now move on all nodes, I also added functionality where he can change directions while moving towards another node. Initially I made 
    a very small map and connected the nodes with a function instead of doing it manually by “hard coding” it. After making sure that it was functioning 
    as intended I made the full pacman map. As the full pacman map has portals I also made the functionality for pacman traveling through the portals. 
    Now that the map was traversable I moved on to making the pellets. I changed the map file I had to accommodate pellets and also wrote the code for the 
    functionality of the pellets. I was about to start coding the ghosts but noticed that a lot of code that was used in coding the ghosts was also in use for pacman, 
    so instead i created a new file that housed all common functionality. Added the ghosts shortly after and made them move randomly on the map.

Nov 19th 2024
	I added the “scatter” and “chase” functionality to the ghosts so now for a set amount of time the ghosts will chase pacman around the map and after the timer is up 
    they will scatter to a specific location on the map that is different for each ghost and this process repeats. I added the ghost starting area in the middle of the 
    map where ghosts will be rendered at the start of the game, I also added fright mode, when pacman consumes a power pellet the ghosts enter fright mode where they flee 
    from pacman in random directions.

Nov 20th 2024
	Ghosts now start from the middle. Added fruits to the game for extra points. Added pausing to the game so pacman does not start instantly anymore. Added a simple 
    level counter where after the board is fully cleared the counter goes up. Pacman now dies if he touches any of the ghosts. I also added conditions for the ghosts to be 
    released, where two ghosts are released instantly and the other two are released based on the pellets pacman has eaten.

Nov 21st 2024
	Made text where if the game is Paused there would be text. There is a ready text at the beginning of the game, and a gameover screen when pacman dies. 
    Additionally I fixed a bug where if pacman died when you restart the game his speed would be halved.

Nov 22nd 2024
	Used a sprite sheet to make sprites for the ghosts pacman and the fruit. I also added the life sprites to indicate how many lives are left

Nov 23rd 2024
	Used the sprite sheet to make the borders of the map and the walls inside the playing area. Sadly the map and nodes were misaligned. For the next 
    few hours I moved the nodes around to align them with the map but that caused the game to crash. As I was feeling frustrated I stopped and am hoping 
    to have this solved by tomorrow.

Nov 24th 2024
	I looked at the code again today to try and figure out why it was not working but I could not pinpoint why it was not working. After a couple hours 
    of mindlessly staring into my screen I decided to just close it down and pick it up again tomorrow.

Nov 25th 2024
	After having a chat with some friends the night before about the issue I am facing, one of them mentioned why not just move the map to align with 
    the nodes. A simple solution which completely went over my head. After doing so everything worked like a charm. To the pacman and ghost sprites I added 
    the animations where ghosts change the direction they are facing based on where they are moving and also did the same thing with pacman, I also added the 
    animation of pacman opening and closing his mouth. Additionally I added the pacman death animation.

Nov 26th 2024
    Made some small changes where the map now changes color when moving up a level and fruits now give more points based on the level you are on.

Dec 7th 2024
	Coded the A* algorithm and used it very primitively on pacman to pathfind to a node specified by me. After that the controls are 
    given back to the user. To do this I also made the movements of the ghosts to be stored in order for pacman to avoid them.

Dec 8th 2024
	I made pacman play the game and use the stored ghost movement to avoid them. But pacman did not avoid the ghosts and just ran into them. 
    I made a few changes to the heuristic and the A* code that improved pathfinding slightly but still ran into ghosts.

Dec 9th 2024
	Continued debugging but I could not improve the state of the game at all

Jan 24th 2025
    did some research on machine learning Libraries such as tensorflow, pytorch, scikit-learn.

Jan 25th 2025
    decided to work on my project using tensorflow, I have found some online tutorials for using tensorflow and have started setting up the enviornment in a ubutu enviornment
    using wsl

Jan 30th 
    failed to get tensorflow enviornment working so i decided to try to use pytorch, again i have found a few tutorials on how to setup pytorch and a few mini projects.

Feb 7th
    after working on the mini projects i have started to work on my project, and I have ran into some problems regarding my pacman code and stored data.

Feb 22nd
    after a break to do my other coursework I have come back and finished fixing the pacman code and how it is stored

Feb 24th
    I have started writing the Neural network code with guidance from the mini projects. 

Feb 27th
    I have finished writing the neural network and have but have ran into issues where I couln't send the tensordict to my GPU for training

Mar 3rd
    I have now fixed the issue with the GPU and have started training on a 3 layer model with 128 nodes.

Mar 7th
    after 4 days of training I have noticed that the network does not learn any furthur and is just repeating failed moves, as a result i have changed the network to a
    4 layer network with 512 nodes moving down to 256 and then 128

Mar 14th
    after a week of training the network again has ran into a wall where it is not learning any furthur and is doing the same wrong moves over and over again.
    I changed the learning rate maybe that might help it learn better

Mar 21st
    after another week of training the model ran into the same problem I have noticed that the 3 layer model learned better and was getting futhur than the 4 layer one so
    i tried to reduce the layers. now I have a 2 layer model with 1 hidden layer and the output layer with 128 nodes.

Mar 24th
    Still training the network but have started working on my report.

Mar 28th 
    I've read somewhere that the network might need to reach 50k episodes before showing any promising results and after a week it has reached only 20k so I will leave it
    working for another week and hopefully see some results. in the mean time im working on my report

Apr 4th
    after two weeks of training i have not seen any improvement so i have decided to stop training the model and just focus on my report since the deadline is in one week
    I have no clue why it is not working and I cant find any guidance. on the bright side my report is moving forward smoothly